(theme music plays )
( distant cheering )
( crowd chanting faintly )
Kill kill kill!
(rumbling)
( sand pattering )
(timbers thudding)
( cheering intensifies )
( metal blows ringing )
( combatants grunting )
( chuckles )
( roars )
Come on!
Yeah!
( laughs)
( blood pattering )
(shouting, clamoring )
Oh, what do you
know about it?
Be gone!
Hold your fucking tongues!
Let the Roman
have his say!
Thrace and the Republic
have known
their differences.
We've not always been
as brothers.
But let us put aside
such matters,
uniting in just cause.
You pushed your way
into our land
and now you stand
asking for our help,
- your hand extended?
- Men: Yeah!
I extend no hand.
I'm here merely to inform.
Mithridates
and his Greeks
attack from the east
encroaching from the Black Sea.
Far removed
from our villages!
True.
But the Getae
take advantage
of the distraction.
Their barbarian hordes
amass to the north,
barely half a week's march
to your villages.
- How many?
-Thousands.
( men clamoring )
Align yourselves
with Rome,
pledge your service
to the auxiliary
and join us
in our campaign!
- To what end?
- ( clamoring continues)
To what end?!
- Victory.
- And how is it to be measured?
The Getae have raided
our villages in the past,
- raped our women...
- Men: Yeah!
- killed our children.
Each time we have
pushed them back
only to see them return.
Elder:
He speaks out of turn,
yet the truth falls
from his mouth.
If we are to align
with Rome,
the purpose
must be clear--
the Getae dead,
all of them.
Dead.
- All of them.
- ( men cheering, clamoring )
The council has decided.
We go to war.
I've asked the gods
to bless your sword.
Once the Getae are wiped
from our lands
there'll be no reason
to ever pick it up again.
( scoffs )
What would my husband
do without it in his hands?
Grow crops, raise goats...
make children.
You would
fight no more?
Forever...
to be by your side.
How soon do you march?
First light.
Then come to bed.
If one night
is all we have left,
I shall make
the most of it.
Be strong.
I woke expecting
my wife beside me.
She rose early to pray...
that her husband
would stay with her.
I thought we were
in agreement.
- We were.
- Were?
The gods came to me
last night
in my sleep.
What did they show you?
My husband on his knees
bowing before
a great red serpent,
the life draining
from his veins.
What meaning
did you take from it?
Awarning.
If you go to war,
you are destined for great
and unfortunate things.
The Getae worship
the mountain wolf.
They place no faith
in snakes.
It was just a dream.
- And if it isn't?
- I gave my word, Sura.
Blood and honor.
It speaks to the man.
Nothing will keep me
from returning to your arms--
not the Getae,
not the Romans,
not the gods themselves.
(sighs)
The nights grow so cold.
What am | to do
without you in our bed?
Lift your dress.
Keep me close
to your thighs.
Thethought
will warm us both.
Kill them all.
Foryou.
( yells battle cry )
- ( men grunting)
- ( metallic ringing)
Hold the line!
l'll fuck your women!
l'll fuck them all!
Where the fuck
are the Romans?
Show the cunts no mercy!
Romans, forward!
(horns sounding)
Warrior:
Where you going?
Where are you small cocks
running off to?
A little late!
They'd just
get in the way.
( quiet chatter)
(grumbles)
My own shit
would taste better.
I cook what
they give us, Drenis.
Guts and bones while Glaber
and his Romans feast on meat!
We're the last to eat,
the last to share
in the spoils,
but always the first to be sent
against those barbarian cunts!
Maybe Legatus fucking Glaber
rolls out of his nice warm tent
and finds these Thracian dogs
have returned to the wild...
- Men: Yeah!
- ( throat cleared )
- ( slurps)
- Something to add, little man?
A word.
Which word
might that be?
The one I gave the Romans
and my body
and blood with it.
We all did--
to push the Getae back.
We can defend
our own lands!
We gave our word.
In my village
such a thing
still bears meaning.
Your village?
Is that why
you're here?
To defend
your village?
Maybe you're trying to impress that
sweet taste you're always going on about
- with stories of war.
- ( all chuckle)
Ahh.
Struck the mark near,
did I?
"Words and honor"
my great fat ass.
It all comes back round
to a pair of tits
and a tight
little hole.
Men: Whoa!
( laughs)
Man:
The legatus is here!
The legatus needs volunteers
to scout beyond the forward line.
You, tactical report
by sunrise.
Or go without rations.
"Please" would've done.
We'll finish
this discussion later.
(grunts)
And if we're dead?
Then my boot will find your ass
in the afterlife.
( chuckles )
(squeals happily )
( growls )
- ||iythia.
- What if I'd been an assassin?
I'd be a widow.
What's a respectful period of mourning
before I could remarry?
You overstep.
Women are forbidden
within the encampment.
- l was discreet.
- Ha. You?
Your man helped to whisk me
through the sentries
after I threatened to run
naked through the camp
screaming he laid his hands
on the wife of the legatus.
Does your father
know you're in Thrace?
Please.
He's too busy colluding
with the other corpses in the Senate.
He thinks I'm still lounging
at the villa in Capua.
Far too arid. It hasn't rained there
since last forever.
You should've written.
You would've told me
not to come.
I'm in the middle of a war.
I bought you a gift--
something to
remind you of Rome.
Sesti wine.
Let me fill up your cup
while you tell me
about your little war.
It's too brief a tale.
Mithridates and his army
of Greek whores
press the legion in the east
by the Black Sea.
Here I sit protecting
the northern border
of the land
of piss and shit
from simple
barbarian raiders.
Mithridates.
A victory against him
would have your name
on every Roman's tongue.
Cotta leads the assault.
He steals your laurels.
He's the consul.
Theft is his privilege.
Father will be
disappointed,
for he secured this position
for you to shine.
And here you sit eclipsed.
lam doing what I can.
( giggles )
Of course you are.
| just wish
you were back home.
Father's planning
a full day
of spectacles
and gladiators.
It's the talk
of Capua.
I hadn't realized
elections were nearing.
Never too early
to campaign.
If things
were heading better,
you could be
by his side.
If.
So serious.
Bad for the humours.
Come.
You haven't tasted
your gift yet.
( both moaning )
(gasping )
- They're breaking camp.
- Frightened little gashes,
running away with their cocks
between their cheeks.
Retreat would take them
beyond the mountains to the north.
- Their torches bear west.
- West?
They're swinging around to attack
the villages below the pass...
our villages.
Slippery little cunts.
If they break for
the mountain pass here
it will take them four days at most
to reach the villages below.
Food, supplies, women--
all unprotected.
It's a simple thing
to be turned
in the mountains
at night.
Perhaps I should
send a Roman
to properly assess
the situation.
Send the gods themselves.
They'll report the same.
Dismissed.
If we march by midday,
we can easily--
Dismissed!
The barbarians
head west.
So it appears.
Further yet from Mithridates
and the Greeks
and the glory
you deserve.
Return to Capua.
And my father?
How will he measure the man
he so blessed with his daughter?
A colossus
towering above
the enemies of Rome.
Pompous arrogant
Roman boy-lover.
All but
called us liars!
- How are you certain?
- You heard what he said.
"Turned in the mountains
at night"--
- like he's speaking to children.
- No no, about the boys.
- How do you know he favors them?
- Now who's having a laugh?
There's this tickle
in the back of my throat.
- The cock Glaberjust forced down it.
- Fuck Legatus.
If he wants to send
his own men, let him.
Won't change the direction
the Getae move.
Glaber is the most
dangerous kind of fool--
- one with a title.
- True,
but perhaps he has better sense
when it comes to wine.
- You stole his wine?
- | only borrowed it.
Plan to piss it all back shortly.
( laughs )
(horns sounding)
- Up.
-( groans) Fuck your mother.
- The Romans sound the call.
- Fuck the Romans and their fucking horns.
Join us,
you drunken goat.
The legatus
has gained his senses.
Is there any wine left?
Your belly
holds the sum.
I may return
the balance presently.
How far to the mouth
of the pass?
if we march with meaning.
Drink would spur
my intent.
My village is only
a ways further west.
- My wine is yours after we--
- Man: West?
We march east
to challenge Mithridates.
Byzo.
Did the legatus send his own men
to scout the front?
How the fuck
should I know?
They blow their fucking horns,
a Roman dog barks
and the gods shit on me.
Welcome to
the fucking auxiliary.
A word, Legatus.
Move to formation!
We advance east!
Sure you mean west
as the Getae advance.
Mithridates and the Greeks
are of pressing concern.
You have allied
yourself with Rome.
I am its body and voice.
We march east
to the Black Sea.
Fall into formation.
Fall into formation!
No.
You would defy an order
from your legatus?
I gave my word to defend
against the Getae,
not to march east
to attack Mithridates.
You will march
where you are commanded!
Kill them!
Wait wait!
(yells)
- Ha!
- Throw, damn you!
What have you done,
you stupid shit?
He did what he had to.
Break and go your way,
west if your lives are there.
If not,
I could give a fuck.
( growls )
What of the legatus?
Leave him in the mud.
(grunts)
( heavy footsteps )
( cries out )
(screaming, yelling)
(grunts)
(yells)
( loud squelch )
( distant cries )
The village.
(screaming, wailing)
We have to go.
Now.
( cricket chirping )
(bird calls)
They haven't followed.
You were right.
Inever
should have left.
You had
given your word.
The fault lies with the Romans
in breaking theirs.
You're hurt.
- It's nothing.
- Let me see.
- Sura.
- ( sternly ) Let me see.
Your tone is disquieting.
You should be
used to it by now.
I'm all right.
Of course you are.
Hold still.
( cloth tears )
It's gone, isn't it--
the village--
everyone we knew?
We'll move south.
I had people there once.
The Getae won't
venture that far,
not to the risk of thinning
their numbers.
And the Romans?
Their concern rests against
Mithridates to the east.
South it is.
lwish I had been
a thousand men.
You did
what you could.
You came back
for me...
knowing it could
mean your life.
There is no life
without you.
( horse snorts)
(screaming )
My tribune dead,
half the auxiliary
deserted,
now orders recalling
me to Rome...
- all from your hand.
- I own my actions,
- but my wife--
- Has been condemned to slavery,
courtesy
of her husband.
No no no!
The shadow of Rome is vast.
And you, Thracian,
will die under it.
( cacophony )
Good of you
to join us.
Thought you were dead
there for a while.
He smells dead.
Stupid fuck.
- Argh! Ahh!
- Drenis: Easy easy!
You've been out for days.
- ( waves crashing )
- We're at sea?
Upon the Adriatic,
bound for Capua.
Sura.
- Your woman?
- The Romans took her.
Best to forget her then.
(waves crashing )
( gasps )
What if I'd been
an assassin?
( giggles )
Father's in town.
- He'll be back shortly.
- How shortly?
He's not very happy
with you.
- And his daughter?
- She missed her husband...
but fears his reappearance
has come too soon.
The games your father presents
the people of Capua...
They begin tomorrow.
- The feast is tonight?
- That's to his purpose in town.
lwould have
a word with him.
It will take more than one
to regain his favor.
The Senate chamber
is full of whispers
overyour
early return.
Cheers of the crowd
will still their tongues.
Cheers? How will you draw them,
short of victory?
By giving them something
few have ever seen:
Thracian blood
spilled in the arena.
Win the hearts
of the crowd...
And the Senate
will beg to follow.
Man:
Get out of my sight!
lnbred shitwhores.
I should sell the lot of you
to the mines.
- Out!
- Father's returned.
And in a fine state.
If he refuses
to aid my intentions--
when pleaded
with teary eye.
(music playing )
( guests applaud,
cheer)
Good citizens of Capua,
revered guests,
a debt of gratitude
for partaking
in this celebration
of the family name Albinius.
( cheering )
Albinius! Albinius!
Your attendance honors
the memory of my elders,
gone too soon from
the realm of the living...
and the joy of a daughter,
yet so full of life.
l repay your kindness
with gifts of water,
carried from Rome where the gods
have seen fit to keep the drought at bay,
and gifts of blood
to be spilled in the arena!
( guests cheer)
Quintus Lentulus Batiatus!
- Step forward.
- ( guests cheer, applaud )
Present your gladiators.
In honor of Senator Albinius
and the people of Capua,
I give you Barca,
the beast of Carthage!
( guests cheers )
Yet his ferocity pales
against the titan of the arena--
the god
of blood and sand!
Crixus
the undefeated Gaul!
Gratitude to Batiatus!
And now to
Marcus Decius Solonius
and his offerings!
( guests cheer)
In honor of Senator Albinius
and the people of Capua,
I give you six
of my finest men!
Behold Ark Adios,
scourge of Athens!
Preening shit eater.
A mockery
to the profession.
- A mockery is it?
- Oh, you disagree?
Let it pass.
We're guests
of the senator.
He's invited us to sit
in the pulvinus tomorrow.
That's consolation.
Only two of my men have been
retained to fight in tomorrow's games
while Solonius
secures half a dozen
of his ill-trained
simians.
(sighs ) That man has fingers
in all the proper assholes.
He wiggles them
and everyone shits gold.
(clapping )
Gratitude to Solonius!
Water and games
are distant praise for the city
that has held the name
Albinius as its own.
More is deserved!
And the gods have seen fit
to deliver it in the form of my
daughter's husband--
Legatus Claudius Glaber...
- ( guests cheer)
- ...newly returned
from the savage lands
of Thrace!
( guests cheer,
applaud )
More gifts for
the people of Capua!
Six Thracian jackals!
Deserters from the war
against the barbaric Getae...
to be executed ad gladium
in tomorrow's games!
( guests cheer,
applaud )
-We||?
- Hm!
- He is well received.
- Ask favor for him again
and your tears will
fall short of notice.
Right. Now to more music
and drink! Hm!
( music plays)
Thracians.
Between those animals
and Solonius's
inferior offerings,
a mockery
on all accounting.
Glaber mentions execution.
Perhaps a word could
lend our men to the task.
The position
has been occupied.
Good Solonius!
l was just marveling at your wares!
Oh and l at yours.
- Oh, you flatter.
- No, I appreciate.
Good to lay eyes,
old friend.
I feared for a time
you would be excluded.
Games absent Batiatus?
A dawn without the sun.
Ah, Crixus and Barca.
Two fine entries.
They should provide distraction
between the more important bouts.
The senator beckons.
If I miss you at the games
tomorrow, Lucretia...
Well it's unlikely. We've been
invited to sit in the pulvinus.
The pulvinus?
With the senator?
A great honor.
l'll enjoy
your company there.
I shall witness his
heart on a day,
parted from
his chest.
And I shall grip
the knife.
I've never beheld
such sights.
Nor will you again.
( crowd roars distantly )
( lock clatters )
( crowd roars )
( chuckles )
(yells)
(gurgling)
- Gladiator: Ha ha!
- ( crowd cheering )
The crowd approves
his gifts.
As do we all.
l've withheld something
of note for the last.
(trumpets sound )
(crowd murmurs)
( panting )
Ready,
Thracian cunt?
( gates open )
Yaaah!
( crowd booing )
( crowd roars
disapproval )
The odds seem
out of favor.
This Thracian caused Rome
a great disservice, Father.
His cowardice
led to mass desertion.
ls his life
not ample repayment?
He must be humiliated
in example.
Solonius was kind enough to offer
his services in this act.
( crowd boos )
(sighs)
Give the command.
( cries out )
(yells)
(grunts)
( laughs)
( booing )
- ( softly ) A mockery.
- Be still.
( snake hisses )
( heavy breathing )
- ( growls)
- ( Sura's voice echoing ) Kill them all.
Yaah!
( cries out )
( crowd chanting )
Kill kill kill kill!
( chanting )
Live live live live live!
Well, this presents
some difficulty.
The sentence
of death holds.
But to defy the wishes
of the crowd,
it's unwise,
even for a senator.
He gave me grievance!
I will not see him freed!
A solution, perhaps--
if you will entertain,
Legatus?
The Thracian has shown
promise in the arena,
albeit against Solonius's
inferior stock.
l have a batch of new recruits
arriving tomorrow.
If I were to purchase
this man in addition
to be trained at my ludus
in the gladiatorial arts,
why in his condition, I doubt
he'll survive to the quarter moon.
( chanting continues)
Live live live live live!
We will be
merciful, hmm?
And by such,
gain the favor you seek.
What name
does the man carry?
I never cared to ask.
Batiatus:
The way he fights--
like the legend
of the Thracian king of old.
Spartacus he was called.
( crowd quiets )
People of Capua,
this man,
this Spartacus,
has proven himself
in the arena.
For this, Legatus
Claudius Glaber and l
grant him life.
( cheering )
( chanting )
Spartacus!
Spartacus, Spartacus!
Spartacus,
Spartacus!
( chanting continues)
(theme music playing )